content/blog/education-models.md, before:

---
title: "Models for Educating Real Skills"
description: Overview of the cognitive apprenticeship model and how it applies in a maintenance shop.
date: 2024-03-07
tags: [learning, teaching, apprenticeship, cognition]
draft: true
---
> Cognitive apprenticeship is a model of instruction that works to make thinking visible.[Source](https://www.theliteracybug.com/apprenticed)

## Cognitive Apprenticeship
### Apprenticeship Education Model
During this phase of education the focus is on doing real-world tasks. *Modeling* is provided by competent and expert workers as they complete the tasks. This allows the learner to build a conceptual knowledge of the whole picture. They should be able to see and conceptualize the big-picture of the task. After viewing the model the learner is provided with *scaffolding* - simplified versions of the task - to build specific skills required for the task, and to build their confidence. Through this process the learner develops self-monitoring and correction skills. They become more independent in the task until the scaffolding is *faded* away.

This process is repeated for various skills until the learner reaches the level of Journeyman. At this point they posess the skills to work independently, but they may still lack a solid understanding of the underlying concepts. For a mechanic, this may mean that with the help of a manual they can troubleshoot and repair a machine, but still not have a full understanding the internal functioning of the machine or the scientic principles that drive it. This is not the end of their journey.
#### 1. Modeling
#### 2. Scaffolding
#### 3. Fading
### Cognitive Worker Model
#### 4. Articutlation
#### 5. Reflection
#### 6. Exploration

Commit message:

First draft of the Observation section

content/blog/education-models.md, after:

---
title: "Models for Educating Real Skills"
description: Overview of the cognitive apprenticeship model and how it applies in a maintenance shop.
date: 2024-03-07
tags: [learning, teaching, apprenticeship, cognition]
draft: true
---
> Cognitive apprenticeship is a model of instruction that works to make thinking visible.[Source](https://www.theliteracybug.com/apprenticed)

## Cognitive Apprenticeship

### Apprenticeship Education Model

During this phase of education the focus is on doing real-world tasks. *Modeling* is provided by competent and expert workers as they complete the tasks. This allows the learner to build a conceptual knowledge of the whole picture. They should be able to see and conceptualize the big-picture of the task. After viewing the model the learner is provided with *scaffolding* - simplified versions of the task - to build specific skills required for the task, and to build their confidence. Through this process the learner develops self-monitoring and correction skills. They become more independent in the task until the scaffolding is *faded* away.

This process is repeated for various skills until the learner reaches the level of Journeyman. At this point they posess the skills to work independently, but they may still lack a solid understanding of the underlying concepts. For a mechanic, this may mean that with the help of a manual they can troubleshoot and repair a machine, but still not have a full understanding the internal functioning of the machine or the scientic principles that drive it. This is not the end of their journey.

#### 1. Modeling

The foundation of human learning is observation. Observing another person performing a task activates the same parts of the brain in the observer and the person performing it. This neural mirroring begins the process of mapping the necessary pathways and patterns necessary to achieve a successful outcome. Through this process an infant learns to crawl and walk and talk. A child learns to brush their teeth, and clean their room, and pull weeds. It all starts with observation. 

This principle also applies to learning the skills necessary for on-the-job performance. 

#### 2. Scaffolding
#### 3. Fading
### Cognitive Worker Model
#### 4. Articutlation
#### 5. Reflection
#### 6. Exploration
